P. Jacquelin Anushya, Priya P. Nisha; International Journal of Advance Research, Ideas and Innovations in Technology

ISSN: 2454-132X
Impact factor: 6.078
(Volume 6, Issue 4)

Available online at: www.ijariit.com

Mood recognition emotion ontology with texts

Jacquelin Anushya P.
anushyajacquelin21@gmail.com
CSI College of Engineering, Ketti, Tamil Nadu

P. Nisha Priya
nishap.priya3@gmail.com
CSI College of Engineering, Ketti, Tamil Nadu

ABSTRACT

Emotion  can  be  expressed  in  many  ways  where  we  can  see
recognition  from  speech,  image  or  video  frames,  facial
expression,  gestures.  Deep  Learning  has  an  increasing
attention  on  its  significant  processing  power.  The  rapid
development  and  universal  availability  of  Social  Media
analyzing these data using traditional tools and technologies
is tough to examine the fundamental behavior of occurrence
in  networking  sites.  Emotion  detection  in  text  file  is
essentially  content  in  social  media.  In  this  paper  we  are
seeing  emotion  recognition  based  on  textual  data  and  the
techniques  are  the  basic  operation  of  arithmetic  such  as
addition  and  statements  of  for  loop,  else  if  condition  with
deep learning and its features.

Keywords: Text, Social Media, Emotion Ontology.
1. INTRODUCTION
Emotional state of a person by inspecting or studying a text file
or  messages  in  social  media  is  directly  used  as  emotions.
Emotion  is  expressed  as  happy,  sad,  anger,  depression,  fear,
surprise and so on. Social media has evolved drastically that is
used  for  posting  and  sharing  information,  intension,  thinking,
sentiment and other forms of expressions. Data exhaust of data
left by the activities during the online activity and transactions.
Often  raw  data  are  created  in  the  forms  of  temporary  files,
cookies, storage capacity, log files and so on. Even the social
media  has  to  play  a  key  role in  connecting people  around the
whole  world  as  it  offers  a  broad  variety  of  knowledge  taking
out tasks as mentioned earlier. Pulling the information from the
data and obtain knowledge from these information.

Machine learning techniques, go along with the advances in an
existing computing power, plays an important role to purchase
the hidden information in this data. However, its vast diversity
gives  a  solution  to  the  problem,  which  is  better  to  depict  the
dubious information and knowledge from the data.  It is active
area  for  machine  learning,  where  deep  learning  is  a  powerful
tool to handle with social media analytics problems. Although
together  with  other  social  media  networking  sites  of
applications, web-based applications are increasing day-to-day
as  most  wanted  hotspots  throughout  the  globe.  More  often,  it
also includes the social computing such as online communities,
reputation systems, question and answering systems, prediction
and  Heterogeneous
systems,

recommender

systems,

Information Network Analysis (HINA). The structure of social
media  data  which  represents  between  the  users  as  nodes  and
relationships among them as links.

Social  media  data  are  enormously  increasing  each  and  every
day in which it requires a refined patterns, designs and feature
extraction  for  knowledge  to    discovery  them.  Most  of  the
conventional  learning  methods  use  shallow-structured  method
for all learning architectures. However, deep learning discusses
about  the  supervised  and  unsupervised  machine  learning
techniques  in  which  they  learn  automatically  to  interpret  the
hierarchical  representations  for  their  classifications.  Deep
learning has the consideration of the research community team
due  to  the  inspiration  from  the  biological  observations  on
human  brain  processing  system.  They  also  are  used  for  its
performed various activities in numerous research areas where
we get information such as digital image processing, speech to
text,  and  all  other  filtering.  The  Deep  learning  technique  has
been applied in engineering fields and manufacturing fields of
products where they are successfully getting the huge volume
or content of digital data. The top most companies in the globe
such as Google, Apple, Facebook and Twitter have to deal with
the data on daily activities.

However, these companies now a day are waiting for an deep
learning  oriented  for  their  projects.  For  an  example,  using  a
deep learning approach, Apple’s Siri software is an application
in  the  iPhone  where  it  works  as  a  virtual  assistant  for  the
iphone in which it proposes a widespread services for counting
news  related  questions  to  answers  to  user’s  or  customers
questions,  by  getting  reports  for  latest  weather  updates,  and
reminders.  At  the  same  time  the  Google  Company  applies
Deep learning to the great large number of Google Translator’s
data. Where in contrast, the social media analytics is one of the
most recent areas of study research areas. Most of the reviews
show  that  deep  learning  is  available  and  efficient  to  solve
substantial big data  problems.  More over in  the focus  and the
research area was based on the deep learning applications such
as image classification and speech recognition. They deal with
many  application  domains  which
including  business,
education, economics, health informatics etc. In this article, we
have  some  application  domains  of  social  media  such  as  user
behavior  analysis,  business  analytics,  sentiment  analysis,  and
ontology  detection  where  deep  learning  has  been  playing  a
striking role for rich information and knowledge.

© 2020, www.IJARIIT.com All Rights Reserved                                                                                               Page |799

P. Jacquelin Anushya, Priya P. Nisha; International Journal of Advance Research, Ideas and Innovations in Technology

2. RELATED WORKS
Social Media Analysis is the web-based technologies that used
to  transform  the  communications  which  is  carried  over  the
virtual  networks  and  communities  into  the  interactive  section.
The  interactive  Web  and  the  Internet-based  applications  are
composed  with  the  contents  that  are  generated  by  the  user,
such  as  comments  or  text  posts,  videos,  and  data  generated
through  all  online  communications.  Which  are  accessed  from
different  platforms,  for  instance,  Facebook,  Twitter,  etc.,  then
evaluate and analyze the data to make business decisions. The
data
is  updating,  expanding,  and  evolving,  unceasingly
customer experiences, intents, and sentiments. Users are linked
together by  a  small  group  which  makes  a  network  of  users  at
Facebook.  In  which  the  network  carries  to  an  increasing  of
several  online  activities,  for  instance,  adding  or  removing  the
friends, liking or disliking the products, joining  or leaving the
groups.

People  or  the  users  are  having  both  kinds  of  variations  in
sentiments  against  each  other,  which  are  the  positive  and
negative  comments  or  complements.  The  advancement  of
social  media  platforms  refers  to  individuals  who  frequently
prefer  to  express  their  sentiments  using  these  platforms.
Whereas,  the  sentiments  such  as  friends,  agreements  or
disagreements,  like  or  dislikes,  trust  or  distrust,  group  joining
or  departing  can  be  into  positive  connections.  Moreover,  we
see that the online friendship platforms include but they are not
limited to Facebook and Twitter.

Video sharing applications and platforms help users to interact
and share their videos online publicly or privately.  These sites
also  allow  the  users  to  save,  share,  comment,  and  control
viewership of their shared content.

The  article  of  affective  computing  in  the  year  1997  by  Since
Picard  proposed  that  plays  an  important  role  of  emotions  in
human  computer  interaction.  This  research  domain  of  deep
learning  attracted  many  researchers  from  computer  science,
biotechnology, psychology, and cognitive science and so on. In
the  research  field  of  emotion  detection  from  textual  data
emerged  a  huge  activity  to  determine  human  emotions.
Whereas the other side, often now a days there are no standard
classifications of “all human emotions” because of the complex
nature of human minds. In the year 2001, author named as W.
Gerrod  Parrot,  published  a  book  and  made  a  research  on
“Emotions  In  Social  Psychology”,  where  it  is  fully  explained
about the emotion system and their feelings which are formally
classifies following the categories the human emotions through
an emotion.

Emotion  recognition  from  speech  uses  both  segment  level
likewise  as  Mel-frequency  cepstral  coefficients,
features
harmonic  to  noise  ratio,  highness  then  the  utterance  level
features.  They  also  use  emotional  dyadic  motion  capture
database  in  the  experiments. Emotion  recognition  from  image
or  video  frames  with  the  transfer  of  learning  the  images  to
recognize emotions from static images. The challenge of this is
static facial expression and it has obtained accuracy of 56%  in
database.  A  deep  neural  network  is  an  approach  to  recognize
emotion was proposed in the raw face image. It was also found
using  the  CK+  database;  component  analyses  and  linear
discriminate  analyses  were  used  in  an  emotion  recognition
system.  Emotion  recognition  from  speech  and  video  is  an
emotion  recognition  system  using  both  the  speech  and  video,
this  database  contains  face  images  with  a  facial  markers.  An
audio-  visual  recognition  system  was  in  a  multidirectional

regression ridge let transform based  features were utilized for
an emotion recognition using  prosody and format the features
for audio and image matrix features for images was introduced.

The emotions are to be expressed in two modes, and then one
will  be  the  vocabulary  of  the  emotional  words  and  the  other
some of the affective items. The vocabulary mode just simply
consists  of  choosing  an  emotional  word  from  the  database  of
emotion  terms  likewise  sad,  love,  hate  etc.  The  other  modes
uses  some  interjections  like  ugh,  eww,  yuhuu,  ahhhh,  to
evaluate  ones  emotions.  In  addition  to    the  emotional  words
have some effects associated with them that they help to define
the  emotional
the  emotions  more  accurately.  However
subdivisions follow the approach of dividing the emotions into
emotion  labels,  The  Ekman’s  theory  of  basic  emotion  model
and  the  Plutchik’s  bipolar  basic  emotion  model  convey  this
emotion  categories.  Ekman  in  this  model  has  divided  the
emotions  into  six  and  they  are  types  of  ANGER,  DISGUST,
FEAR,  HAPPINESS,  SADNESS  and  SURPRISE.  Plutchik’s
model is based on the other hand and this  is the super set of
Ekman’s model with two additional categories of classes that is
TRUST and ANTICIPATION.

3. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
3.1 Proposed Architecture
For  emotion  recognition  it  consists  of  keywords  that  generate
the  feeling  of  a  person.  Then  by  its  emotion  a  proposed
structure
is  used  for  simple  and  easy
understanding.

is  given

that

Sentence

Emotion
Detection

Output

This  model  exactly  explains  by  using  the  keywords,  which  is
entered  manually  and  gives  the  solution  for  the  emotion  in
percentage.  Whereas  the  emotion  entered  in  that  are  given  by
text  analyzes  the  words  which  are  given  in  the  keyword
declaration. The group of words forming a sentence to express
the emotion of a person.

3.2 Packages
A package is basically defined as a directory with Python files
and  a  file  with  the  name  Finalkeywordmood.py.  This  is  that
every  directory  has  a  Python  path,  which  contains  main
directory  of  the  file  named  Finalkeywordmood.py,  will  be
treated  as  a  package  by  Python.  It  is  possible  to  add  several
modules into a Package data.
Packages  are  a  way  of  assembling  the  Python’s  module  with
the  namespace  by using "dotted module names” A package is
imported  and  acted  like  a  "normal"  module.  Where  the
packages helps to run the file.

3.3 Keyword Declaration
Keywords are declared to use the reserved keywords in Python.
Where  we  are  not  able  to  use  a keyword as  a  variable  name,
function  name  or  any  other  identifier.  They  are  also  used
to define
of
the Python language  in  a  program.  In Python, keywords are
most case sensitive.

structure

syntax

state

and

the

or

3.4 Addition
Addition  plays  a  several  important  role  in  this  day  today  life
and  makes  a  routine  work  in  our  essential  life.  It  makes  a

© 2020, www.IJARIIT.com All Rights Reserved                                                                                               Page |800

P. Jacquelin Anushya, Priya P. Nisha; International Journal of Advance Research, Ideas and Innovations in Technology

communication  process  and  gives  an  order  that  does  not
matter, and it has an associative, meaning that when one adds
more  than  two  numbers,  the  order  in  which  addition  is
performed  does  not  matter  to  run  this  addition.  Repeated
addition  of the  same  words is  equal  to  same  as counting,
addition of the sentence does not change any number. Addition
also  has  its  own  predictable  rules  concerning  for  its  related
 and
operations  on  numerical
multiplication.

tasks  such  as subtraction

creating  an  object  with  next()  and  iter()  methods.  That  deals
with raw numbers when it comes to for loops in Python.

3.6 Main Method
Some  programming  languages  have  a  special  function  or  a
command  called main() function  which
the
execution  point  in  a  program  file.  In  this  python  interpreter,
however, it runs each line in an orderly manner from the top of
the  file  to  the  bottom  of  the  file  and  has  no  explicit   main()
function to run.

is  used  for

Suppose
if
called Finalkeywordmood.py it
command

we

have

a

runs  with

Python
the

file
following

Print (name)

If  we  run the  file  according  to  the  command  given  as
Finalkeywordmood.py     from the command line, then it runs
as  a  Python  script.  When  we  run  the  program  as  a  script,  the
value  of  the  variable name  is  set  to main  function.  So  the
output of the following program will be main.
• Running  python  file  as  a  module:  We  can  also  run  the
Python file as a module. First we have to import this file into
another  Python  program.  Where  we  have  a  Python  file
called main.py in  the  same  directory  of  the  program  as  the
Finalkeywordmood.py file

• Import  urllib.request:  Here,  we  can  see  that  importing  a
module also runs all the code in the module file. Therefore I
can see that instead of displaying main, the program displays
the name of the module

• Please  enter  a  sentence:  The  context  of  running  a  Python
file  as  a  module,  then  the  name  of  the  module  itself  is
assigned  to  the name variable.  However,  when  we  run  the
program  it  has  a  module by  importing  it  in  the main.py file.
This  is  the  way  to  define  the main() function  in  Python
Programming file.

4. CONCLUSION
Therefore by reviewing the previous works and research works
in the domain of the deep learning, I conclude that much of the
work  has  been  done  in  the  field  especially  in  the  field  and
domain of textual datasets. This experiment result some of the
works  with  various  fields  of  computational  models  with  their
overall  system  accuracy  has  been  shown  below.        Hereby  I
note  that  there  has  been  a  significant  improvement  in  the
system  accuracies  over  the  time  with  the  improvement  or
modification  of  traditional  computational  approaches  with  the
percentage with the resources and the features generated

Emotion Detection is seen as an important field of research and
field  to  work  in  human-computer  interaction.  Therefore,  a
sufficient amount of work has been done by the researchers to
detect  emotion  from  facial  to  audio  information  whereas  the
other recognizing emotions from textual data is still a fresh and
hot filed in the research area. In this paper, the methods, which
are currently being used to detect emotion from text, are  seen
along  with  their  limitations  and  here  by  a  new  system

Performing the addition is one of the simplest numerical tasks
where  we  can  use  it  anywhere  for  basic  simple  tasks  where
research  on  the  most  efficient  implementations  of  addition
continues to this day.

3.5 For Loop
FOR  loops  are  traditionally  used  when  we  have  a  block  of
codes  which  is  repeatedly  running  in-between  in  a  fixed
number  of  times.  In  this  the  Python for statement  recapitulate
over  the  code  or  words  in  a  sequence  of  order,  executing  the
block  of  codes  each  time.  The  for statement  with  using
the ''while''  loop,  used  whenever  a  condition  needs  to  be
checked  each  iteration,  or  in  addition  to  repeat  a  block  of
codes.

Many  languages  have  conditions  in  their  own  syntax  of
their for loop  iteration,  such  as  a  relational  expression  to
control  if  the  loop  his  done,  and  an  increment  expression  is
used  to  decide  the  next  loop  value  in  the  next  iteration.  In
Python  this  is  only  controlled  generating  the  appropriate
numbers in sequence.

Any object or a sentence with an alterable method can be used
in  a  for loop.  Even  strings  are  not  having  an  alterable  repeat
method.  Having  a  repeat  method  means  that  the  data  can  be
presented in list form and whereas there are multiple values in
an  orderly  manner.  We  can  define  our  own  iterables  by

© 2020, www.IJARIIT.com All Rights Reserved                                                                                               Page |801

P. Jacquelin Anushya, Priya P. Nisha; International Journal of Advance Research, Ideas and Innovations in Technology

architecture is proposed, which would perform efficiently with
the accuracy of percentage.

[6]  C.  Elliott,  “The  affective  reasoner:  a  process  model  of
emotions  in  a  multiagent  system,”  in  Doctoral  thesis,
Northwestern University, Evanston, IL, May 1992.
[7]  C.-H.  Wu,  Z.-J.  Chuang,  and  Y.-C.  Lin,  “Emotion
Recognition  from  Text  Using  Semantic  Labels  and
Separable Mixture Models,” ACM Transactions on Asian
Language  Information  Processing  (TALIP),  vol.  5,  issue
2, Jun. 2006, pp. 165-183, doi:10.1145/1165255.1165259.
[8]  Z.  Teng,  F.  Ren,  and  S.  Kuroiwa,  “Recognition  of
Emotion  with  SVMs,”  in  Lecture  Notes  of  Artificial
Intelligence  4114,  D.-S.  Huang,  K.  Li,  and  G.  W.  Irwin,
Eds. Springer, Berlin Heidelberg, 2006, pp. 701-710, doi:
10.1007/11816171_87.

5. REFERENCES
[1]  R. Cowie, E. Douglas-Cowie, N. Tsapatsoulis, G. Votsis,
S.  Kollias,  “Emotion  recognition  in  human-computer
interaction,”  in  IEEE  Signal  Processing  Magazine,  vol.
18(1), Jan. 2001, pp. 32-80, doi: 10.1109/79.911197.
[2]  Parrott,  W.G,  “Emotions  in  Social  Psychology,”  in

Psychology Press, Philadelphia 2001.

[3]  C.  Maaoui,  A.  Pruski,  and  F.  Abdat,  “Emotion
recognition  for  human  machine  communication”,  Proc.
IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots
and  Systems  (IROS  08),  IEEE  Computer  Society,  Sep.
2008, pp. 1210-1215, doi: 10.1109/IROS.2008.4650870.
[4]  Chun-Chieh Liu, Ting-Hao Yang, Chang-Tai Hsieh, Von-
Wun  Soo,  ”Towards  Text-based  Emotion  Detection:  A
Survey  and  Possible  Improvements  ”,in  International
and
on
Conference
Engineering,2009.

Information  Management

[5]  N.  Fragopanagos,  J.G.  Taylor,  “Emotion  recognition  in
human–computer
of
interaction”,
Mathematics,  King‟s  College,  Strand,  London  WC2
R2LS,  UK  Neural  Networks  18  (2005)  389–405  march
2005.

Department

[9]  C.  Yang,  K.  H.-Y.  Lin  and  H.-H.  Chen,  “Emotion
corpora,”  Proc.
classification
IEEE/WIC/ACM
International  Conference  on  Web
Intelligence.  IEEE  Computer  Society,  Nov.  2007,  pp.
275-278, doi: 10.1109/WI.2007.50.

using  web

blog

[10]  C.  M.  Lee,  S.  S.  Narayanan,  and  R.  Pieraccini,
"Combining  Acoustic  and  Language  Information  for
Emotion Recognition," Proc. 7th International Conference
on  Spoken  Language  Processing  (ICSLP02),  2002,
pp.873-876.

[11]  C.-H.  Wu,  Z.-J.  Chuang  and  Y.-C.  Lin,  “Emotion
Recognition  from  Text  Using  Semantic  Labels  and
Separable Mixture Models,” ACM Transactions on Asian
Language  Information  Processing  (TALIP),  vol.  5,  issue
2, Jun. 2006, pp. 165-183, doi:10.1145/1165255.1165259.
[12]  C.  Elliott,  “The  affective  reasoner:  a  process  model  of
emotions  in  a  multiagent  system,”  in  Doctoral  thesis,
Northwestern University, Evanston, IL, May 1992.
[13]  Nicu  Sebea,  Ira  Cohenb,  Theo  Geversa,  and  Thomas  S.
for  Emotion
“Multimodal  Approaches

Huangc
Recognition: A Survey”, USA.

[14]  http://www.wikipedia.org

© 2020, www.IJARIIT.com All Rights Reserved                                                                                               Page |802

